[Hunt Tuning] Add Descriptions, Collapse Queries and Re-Generate Docs (#3791)
elastic/detection-rules: hunting/windows/docs/execution_via_windows_management_instrumentation_by_occurrence_frequency_by_unique_agent.md

# Low Frequency of Process Execution via WMI by Unique Agent

---

## Metadata

- **Author:** Elastic
- **Description:** This hunt looks for unique process execution via Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) by removing random patterns from `process.command_line` and aggregating execution by count of agents with the same command line to limit results to unique ones.

- **UUID:** `b5efeb92-9b51-45b9-839f-be4cdc054ef4`
- **Integration:** [endpoint](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/endpoint), [windows](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/windows), [system](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/system)
- **Language:** `ES|QL`

## Query

```sql
from logs-endpoint.events.process-*, logs-windows.sysmon_operational-*
| where @timestamp > now() - 7 day and
  host.os.family == "windows" and event.category == "process" and event.action in ("start", "Process creation") and

>   process.parent.name.caseless == "wmiprvse.exe" and starts_with(process.code_signature.subject_name, "Microsoft")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to_lower(process.parent.name) == "wmiprvse.exe" and starts_with(process.code_signature.subject_name, "Microsoft")
```

| keep process.hash.sha256, host.id, process.name
| stats agents = count_distinct(host.id) by process.name
| where agents == 1
```

```sql
from logs-endpoint.events.process-*, logs-windows.sysmon_operational-*, logs-system.security-*
| where  @timestamp > now() - 7 day and
  host.os.family == "windows" and event.category == "process" and
  event.action in ("start", "Process creation", "created-process") and

>   process.parent.name.caseless == "wmiprvse.exe"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to_lower(process.parent.name) == "wmiprvse.exe"
```

| keep process.command_line, host.id
| eval cmdline = replace(process.command_line, """[cC]:\\[uU][sS][eE][rR][sS]\\[a-zA-Z0-9\.\-\_\$~ ]+\\""", "C:\\\\users\\\\user\\\\")
| eval cmdline = replace(cmdline, """([0-9a-fA-F]{8}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{12}|ns[a-z][A-Z0-9]{3,4}\.tmp|DX[A-Z0-9]{3,4}\.tmp|7z[A-Z0-9]{3,5}\.tmp|[0-9\.\-\_]{3,})""", "")
| stats agents = count_distinct(host.id) by cmdline
| where agents == 1
```

```sql
from logs-endpoint.events.process-*, logs-windows.sysmon_operational-*
| where @timestamp > now() - 7 day and
  host.os.family == "windows" and event.category == "process" and event.action in ("start", "Process creation") and

>   process.parent.name.caseless == "wmiprvse.exe" and (process.code_signature.exists == false or process.code_signature.trusted == false)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to_lower(process.parent.name) == "wmiprvse.exe" and (process.code_signature.exists == false or process.code_signature.trusted == false)
```
